>> Mike North: We need to now thread
models into the UI code base.
So if we look, we got some problems.
See these red squiggles happening?
These files aren't in
the UI package anymore.
And we need some way of stating
that a dependency exists where
the UI package needs this new
models package that we created.
So we're gonna go ahead and
take care of that.
And we'll do this by,
by going to the UI packages, package.json.
And we're gonna go into dependencies.
And here, we'll name our monorepo
dependency that we depend on,
seeds/models.
And the specifier here is going
to be something interesting.
This is a PNPM specific construct.
So what we're saying here is this is
a package coming from the workspace and
I will tolerate any
version of that package.
What's going to happen is we will
say when PNPM needs to resolve
this dependency,
it will first bias towards identifying
whether the local package
meets this version specifier.
In this case we'll take anything.
So that will always be met.
But you could also put a number here and
what that would mean.
Somebody in class was talking about how
sometimes people do have monorepos with
versioned inter monorepo dependencies.
You could put something like that
there and you would pull down,
you'd go to NPM and you'd grab the
appropriate version of the package here.
But I advise go with this.
This is where you get a lot of
benefits from the monorepo.
We have a question from chat.
>> Speaker 2: Why add types and
modules explicitly?
Currently our code works in the same way.
>> Mike North: Interesting,
so if you go up to,
Well, let's explore that idea.
I'm going to get the UI package working,
then I'm going to remove those two entries
from the package JSON of the models folder
and let's see if things still work.
I would be surprised if they do.
It's possible, but let's see what
that would mean is something
is inferring that that declaration file
is the entry point for my package.
Because if we go back to
the models package JSON,
there's no information in
here except in these places.
What's the entry point of this library?
Is it main js?
Is it disk/source index.js?
So typically you have to specify this.
I would assume it's kind of dangerous
to have a convention like that.
Like what if you had a main and an index,
this kind of bold assumption to make that
if you just name something
a particular way.
But let's poke at that and
we'll experiment and See if in fact these
are necessary components, as far as I
know, they are absolutely necessary.
Did you have a question?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, so
we're pointing to a local directory with
that workspace string, basically, right?
>> Mike North: Yes.
You're saying two things.
One, this dependency can be found
inside this PNPM workspace.
And I am willing to work with any
version that you have for me.
But what that happens to mean
is because there's this part of
the resolution algorithm where you
first try to see if this requirement,
which will accept anything,
that versioning requirement,
can be met within the local workspace.
And of course it will, because
you'll accept anything, then you'll
end up linking to that workspace
copy of that monorepo dependency.
>> Speaker 3: And so
this is a pnpm specific feature?
>> Mike North: This is.
Other package managers have
similar concepts here, but
this index here is a PNPM construct.
>> Speaker 3: And is it crawling kind
of the directory structure, looking for
other package.json files to know
where to find that dependency?
>> Mike North: It does, but
yes, it does as part of pnpm i.
But remember, it kind of already knows.
It's like crawling a very
small set of things.
Right?
It's crawling the folder that we've set,
our packages are in, and
it's looking at each package and
seeing like, where is this?
And if you look, if you're adventurous and
you want to spelunk through here,
like as part of setting up that package,
there's some internal state
that PNPM has where it already knows,
like, here's the folder.
This is exactly where it
has already crawled that.
It has already crawled that.
So what's happening is as it evaluates
each of the packages that it finds in
that PackageStar folder,
it's creating this projects object.
And then when it comes time to
perform that resolution algorithm,
it like absolutely knows what it has
to work with in the latest state it
has about this monorepo.
So yeah, the crawling is happening, but
it's happening more ahead
of time than you think.
The state is already established and
it's just sort of reading from that state.
All right, well, let's see if this works.
We touched a package JSON,
therefore we pnpm i.
Okay, so
something interesting happened here.
We can see it's got three
workspace projects.
This is counting the root
of the workspace,
cuz there exists
a package.json there as well.
Let's take a look at what
ended up happening here.
First off,
we're gonna need to update this import.
That's the first thing that
we're going to need to do here.
So this is going to
come from Seeds models.
Look, that resolved nicely.
Let's run the build and
let's see if there are other places
where this needs to be updated.
We want to run it in.
Let's just get out of our packages here
up to the root of the project PNPM build.
So this is building everything.
Note that it's building models
before it builds the ui.
This is not an accident.
It understands there's
a dependency between those.
It understands that we have to have
things in that dist folder of the models
package in order for the UI compile
to have a chance of working.
This looks like it worked, but remember,
there's this separate type checking
thing that Svelte has to do and
that's really where we're going to surface
more useful feedback here we get an error.
I suspected we would.
Okay, we're building ui.
We've got this formatting thing.
I'm going to run it again just so
that I can see the full line.
That's what's screwing with me here.
Hey, there we go.
Real file names.
So we've got our formatting.ts.
All right, so we're importing stuff
that was from SeedPacketModel.
This needs to come from.
I'm going to leave it on my clipboard
because I'm going to use it over and over.
Seeds models seed packet back.
This is coming from Seeds
models seed packet state.
This is going to come from Seeds models.
And now this is actually
a an additional import from the same
place because it's not two
separate modules, one for
the collection, one for the model.
It's all being exported through that
index TS at the root of our library now.
And I know this needs type here.
This is just type information.
I'm leaving it as a little Easter egg for
us to find when we re enable linting and
getting it working across our monorepo.
Let's try building again or
checking again, rather.
All right, couple more, seed-packet.state.
Maybe we didn't save our file.
No, we're getting it already.
We need that type just encouraging us.
This helps with tree shaking where we're
trying to eliminate dead code like unused
dependencies as we're building for
production.
If you sort of force yourself to say,
look,
if we're just importing the interface,
we import it this way.
That lets build tools kind of walk through
just the import statements and say, look,
at runtime there is no typescript.
We can just avoid including this package
entirely because we're only using it for
type information.
In this case, then Our load data function,
this is in our server.
And again, same deal, seeds, models and
there we go, check once more and
the build passes.
So to loop back to that
question about types,
I'm going to go back to
our models package JSON.
What happens if we get rid of these?
Save.
I'm going to.
Just to keep ourselves honest here,
I want to blow away the previous build.
Look, now,
the UI package can't resolve this.
What it's saying is it
can't find the module.
But really what it's saying is like,
sorry, a more specific statement here.
It's like, yeah, the module's there,
but I have no idea.
Well, sorry, the dependency is there, but
it can't find whatever we're
trying to import here.
Like where is the specific JavaScript
file or the DTS file to get types from?
It can't find that.
So if we put it back,
oops, wrong package JSON,
if we go back to the models package
JSON and we add it again and
hit save and then build,
we can see that everything goes back and
we can type check and we can build again.
So that's the purpose of those two fields.
This one is for type checking.
This one is for
actually executing code at runtime.
Like what's the entry point for
the JavaScript itself?
But they both.
Are you as the library author specifying
what is the entry point for this package?
>> Speaker 2: So is it kind of like
without it, it'd be like saying, hey,
go to Frontend Masters,
it's in this building.
And you're like, yeah, okay,
frontend Masters exists in this building,
but where.
>> Mike North: Yeah, it'd be like
saying go to frontend Masters and
take the course.
You're like, I appear to have a front
end master's and there are many courses,
but what do you mean which one?
There's a bunch of stuff in here.
Where do I enter?
And especially if you're like,
this is almost like.
Remember when you're saying I want
to import something like this,
this is a package.
These are exported symbols that come
from somewhere in that package.
But without a module bridging that gap.
When you say there's almost
an implicit something here,
I think of it kind of like this.
There's kind of something implicit there,
but what exactly do you mean?
Sorry, it is not implicit,
but you're saying,
I want something from this path, but
it needs to know, it needs to resolve.
Once it says, all right,
there's a dependency here for sure, but
within that I've got a folder
in node_modules for this thing.
But what specifically without that types
field and without this module field,
that's where attempting to type check or
attempting to run.
In the case of those enums where there's
actual JavaScript in the compiled output,
those will fail.
>> Speaker 2: Have you run into
TypeScript LSP performance issues in large
monorepos and as the mono repo grows,
what are some best practices to
keep the LSP footprint lower?
>> Mike North: I have some tips which
we're going to touch on and that is
the idea of using project references
which creates these tsbuild info files.
It allows type checking both in terms of
the language server doing its job and
build.
It allows those to be done in a much more
incremental way where TypeScript has
more keen awareness of these were these
specific modules that you touched in
the project.
When you rebuild, it has a lot more
information that it can reuse instead of
recompiling every package from scratch.
So that's one thing that helps here.
But bluntly, the TypeScript
compiler is really complicated.
It is a heavyweight project and
this is part of why the TypeScript team is
in the middle of a go rewrite where
they're building both the compiler and
probably the guts of the language server.
That is the main thing people will use.
They're trying to use a language that
lets them accomplish all of the analysis
that they need to do in a much more
efficient way that is more suitable for
large typescript monorepos.
It is a real problem.
You know this if you
work on something big for
work, type checking
slows down when there's
a lot of weight, especially at stripe.
Our dashboard project is in a monorepo
with a lot of typescript and
it's like 3.7 million lines of code or
even more now.
It's challenging.
So we would use SWC for the build, but
that doesn't really help
with the language server.
So we're always just trying to tune it up
more, use these project references, etc.
But the go, you should take the GO
rewrite as an indicator that there's
kind of a ceiling in terms of like
the compiler doing its job and
being written in TypeScript itself.
There's a limit to how
performant it can get, and
in particular it's not just the speed,
but it's a memory issue as well.
So if your type checking is running
slowly, just run a little top or
an htop and check out how much
state is being stored and
how much memory it's consuming.
And it is not trivial, gigabytes.
This is like why you need
to have a lot of ram.
Even if you're trying to run things
like do your build elsewhere,
if your language server is
running locally, it's a big.
It's a lot of computer.